Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
the datatypes in C.
So to store or access any data in our programme
First we need to define it's data type.
Suppose we want to use age in our programme
So first thing to do is to define its data
type
And how do you choose the correct data type Since
we always have a whole number for age we can
choose the integer data type. so we can have values
like 20 25 et cetera
And what about 20.3 Now you cannot have a decimal
number for integer data type and in some cases we
need to use decimal numbers as well
For example if you want to use weight in your programme
and weight need not necessarily be a whole number all the
time
So we need another data type which can have decimal
values
For that we have the floating point data type and you
can have values like 52.3 kg 70.5 kg etc
Now let's see some basic data types and their size
As per GCC. The size of integer data type is
four bytes and it is used to store and
integer value
Some examples are -5,-1, 0, 4 etc
Float data type is used to store a floating point number or
a number with a fractional part
And it is also called a single precision floating point
number the size of float is four bytes
And these are some examples
Next we have the double or double precision floating point
number
It provides more space to store a number
The size of double is eight bytes and these are
some examples
Next we have char data type which is used
to store a single character such as a,b,c *,# etc.
and it is of size 1 byte
Next we have void data type. It is of size 1 byte and
it's an incomplete data type which is mainly used in
functions as return type or argument type
An example is void fun that is
fun will not be returning anything we will
be discussing about void type in later lessons
So that's all and thank you for watching this video